What are the various operations that can be performed on different data structures?
Because as we learned in our previous lectures, data structures are simply ways to organize our data
on our computers.
And the data structures we'll see throughout this course are simply variations of how we store this
data on our computers, this information.
And each data structure has their trade offs.
Some are good at certain operations.
Others are good at other operations.
One type of action that we're going to perform with data structures well is insertion.
Add a new data item in a given collection of items such as us adding the Apple item and memory here.
Another one.
Well, deletion.
We want to sometimes delete data such as remove mango from our list.
Another type of action might be traversal and we're going to see this a lot.
Traversal simply means.
Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
Another useful one is searching.
We want to find out the location of the data item if it exists in a given collection.
And then we also have things like sorting that is having data that is sorted kind of like it is on the
left hand side over here versus the right hand side where there's not much sorting going on, at least
from what we can see.
And obviously the main one and probably the most important is access.
How do we access this data that we have on our computer?
Now each data structure that we're going to go through in this course, we'll have different pros and
cons for each one of these.
And if we take a look at our big ogechi.
Well, we're very familiar with this diagram over here or this graph.
And if we scroll down, we have all these data structures that it lists and don't get to overwhelm.
We're going to go over most of these data structures and you see that half of them are mainly trees
and variation of trees.
And within here we see that each one of them has access, search, insertion, deletion, average and
worst case.
And because we understand big o, we can see that.
All right.
We're seeing which ones.
Good for what?
And what is bad for what?
And as we go through our data structures, we're going to go over these pros and cons so that you build
the foundation to be able to decide which data structure should I use.
On your next problem, we're going to get started with our very first data structure in the next lesson.
I'll see you in that one.